Developmental Status and Perspectives for Tissue Engineering in Urology.

Elcin Huseyn
Azerbaijan State Oil and Industry
University, Baku, Azerbaijan

elcin.huseyn@asoiu.edu.az

Abstract: Tissue engineering technology and tissue cell-based stem cell research have made
great strides in treating tissue and organ damage, correcting tissue and organ dysfunction, and
reducing surgical complications. In the past, traditional methods have used biological substitutes for
tissue repair materials, while tissue engineering technology has focused on merging sperm cells
with biological materials to form biological tissues with the same structure and function as their
own tissues. The advantage is that tissue engineering technology can overcome donors. Material
procurement restrictions can effectively reduce complications. The aim of studying tissue
engineering technology is to find sperm cells and suitable biological materials to replace the
original biological functions of tissues and to establish a suitable in vivo microenvironment. This
article mainly describes the current developments of tissue engineering in various fields of urology
and discusses the future trends of tissue engineering technology in the treatment of complex
diseases of the urinary system. The results of the research in this article indicate that while the
current clinical studies are relatively few, the good results from existing animal model studies
indicate good prospects of tissue engineering technology for the treatment of various urinary tract
diseases in the future.

Keywords: Tissue engineering; kidney; ureter; bladder; urethra.

1. Introduction

Urinary system tissue damage and organ loss caused by degenerative diseases, trauma or tumors
have always been problems that urology needs to solve. In the past, autologous tissues were used to
replace them, such as genital skin, bladder mucosa, oral mucosa, etc., but often It can cause various
complications such as hair growth, stenosis, stone formation, and diverticulum formation.
Moreover, because the materials are taken from their own tissues, they are often limited by the
source of the donor material, and complications at the donor site are prone to occur. In the case of
end-stage organ failure, transplantation is usually used. Although transplantation technology is
relatively mature, the results are not always satisfactory in terms of immune control and suppression
of complications. In addition, the number of organ donors in the country and the world is far below
the demand for transplantation, and the population is gradually aging, and the number of people
with reduced tissue and organ function is increasing. If the length of the ureter and urethra is large,
repair, operations are sometimes difficult to perform. Therefore, to solve these problems, it is
necessary to find a way to replace or regenerate damaged organs and tissues. The development of
regenerative medicine and tissue engineering allows people to further understand the mechanism of
tissue regeneration and find ways to regenerate damaged tissues or organs. It is now possible to
improve tissue regeneration capacity or use biomaterial scaffolds combined with stem cells to repair
damaged tissues and organs, to restore the functions of tissues and organs and improve the quality
of life of patients. This article reviews the achievements in basic research and clinical application of
tissue engineering technology in urology in recent years, to provide direction and guidance for
future research and innovation in this field.

1|Page
 2. Overview of urinary system tissue engineering

Tissue engineering is the science of constructing biological substitutes to maintain or repair
damaged tissues and organs based on the principles of cell biology, materials science, and
bioengineering.

The cell sources of urinary system tissue engineering mainly include:

e Original cells: obtained from oneself, cultured in vitro, and then used to repair damaged
tissue.

e Urinary tract epithelial cells: Obtained through bladder biopsy and cell culture. The collection
method is invasive, but it is currently available. Urinary epithelial cells are separated by urine or
bladder washing.

e Autologous epithelial cells, oral keratinocytes, smooth muscle cells (used to restore the
contraction and urination function of the bladder).

e Stem cells: bone marrow stem cells, adipose stem cells, urine-derived stem cells.

The scaffold materials for tissue engineering mainly include:

1. Synthetic polymers, such as biodegradable polymers: polyglycolic acid and polylactic acid-
polyglycolic acid, both of which are biomaterial's composed of covalently bonded macromolecules.
The main advantage of synthetic polymers is that they can produce organ structures of any shape in
three-dimensional space, can be quantified, have good reproducibility, and are relatively low cost.
Because it is an artificial material, there are no problems related to graft or autologous tissue
collection damage. In addition, many characteristics of such synthetic polymers can be controlled,
such as porosity and mechanical properties; and can be degraded through hydrolytic pathways, and
the residual debris can be eliminated through metabolic pathways; it does not contain any molecular
signals related to guiding cell activity and differentiation, so it is more conducive to tissue and
organ repair.

2. Biologically derived scaffolds are decolourized tissues based on chemical and mechanical
means, such as submucosa of the small intestine (SIS) and bladder acellular matrix (BAM). Due to
the residual growth factors and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, they have the advantages like
the inherent biological activity and mechanical properties of natural ECM. However, one of the
main disadvantages of these stents is that the remaining protein composition and structure may be
different from the body itself to be implanted. Most natural scaffolds come from pigs, so they may
be a source of disease transmission. In addition, ethical issues will also affect its clinical use.

3. Self-assembled engineering, tissue. This method utilizes or combines the self-assembly
characteristics of cells to construct a three-dimensional biological tissue structure. After
decellularization and sterilization of biologically derived materials, the exogenous extracellular
matrix material may still contain a considerable amount of DNA that may affect biocompatibility.
The self-assembly method can produce tissues constructed by the cells themselves, in which the
dense extracellular matrix is produced entirely by their own fibroblasts. The biggest advantage of
this material is that it eliminates the influence of the biocompatibility of exogenous materials. By
reducing the immune response, inflammation and fibrosis can be reduced, thereby increasing the
success rate of surgery. In recent years, some of the techniques in these methods have been used in
the reconstruction of urinary system tissues [1]. These techniques require cells to receive
corresponding signals for proper differentiation, so that the engineered tissues for transplantation
and the target tissues for replacement can be exhausted. It may be similar. Studying and simulating
related signals is a difficult problem that needs to be overcome to apply these technologies to other
2|Page
 tissues and organs.

In addition, nowadays 3D printing technology has been widely used in various fields, including
nanoelectronics, medicine and tissue engineering. It can accurately combine different materials with
different substrates, making it the best choice for carrying drugs and conducting personalized
medical research. [2] Therefore, 3D printing technology has gradually become an important part of
the construction of tissue engineering scaffolds.

3. Application of tissue engineering technology in kidney

The main components used to construct a functional kidney structure in tissue engineering
technology are living cells, a scaffold system based on biometrics, biologically active factors, and
appropriate microenvironments that promote cell behavior. On this basis, the natural healing ability
of body regeneration is used to guide the growth of new organizations. The method is mainly to
separate the donor tissue into individual cells. These cells are either directly implanted in the host
body, or cultured and expanded and then implanted, or attached to a scaffold and expanded and then
implanted [3].

As a good carrier for cell growth, collagen hydrogel has been widely used in the preparation of
kidney tissue engineering scaffolds. The three-dimensional collagen scaffold was used to
reconstruct three-dimensional kidney tissue in vitro using mixed newborn rat kidney cells, and it
was found that the seed cells in the three-dimensional hydrogel scaffold could self-assemble into
engineered kidney tissue containing renal tubules and glomerulus-like structures and be cultured in
three dimensions. The cells can retain their phenotype, migration ability and albumin uptake
function. Hydrogel hyaluronic acid (HA) can be used as a scaffold material for kidney tissue
engineering, but actual research and application have shown that hydrogel scaffolds and other
hydrogel polymer scaffolds are difficult to maintain due to low mechanical strength and physical
shape. This results in a higher failure rate during use. To improve the mechanical strength, there are
also studies combining extracellular matrix derivatives with synthetic biomaterials. This composite
scaffold is considered a solid carrier in tissue engineering [4]. In terms of decellularized scaffolds,
the researchers decellularized rat kidneys, implanted epithelial cells and endothelial cells to create
cell-containing scaffolds, then perused the cell-containing scaffolds in a director, and finally
implanted them in the body. The bioengineered kidney after transplantation can produce urine and
remove metabolites in the body [5].

In addition to the above research, another main reason that bioengineered organs can achieve
long-term good results in the body is a potency of blood vessels. In the case that the vascular matrix
is not completely fused with endothelial cells, there is likely to be obvious thrombosis in the
vascular system of the stent, which makes the revascularized structure lose its function. To solve
this problem, Ko et al. [6] Adopted an endothelial cell inoculation method that can effectively cover
the blood vessel wall of the decellularized pig kidney stent. The study of Lertkiatmongkol et al. [7]
Showed that the combination of CD31 antibody and vascular matrix enables vascular endothelial
cells to attach to blood vessels. CD31 is also known as platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1
(PECAM-1/CD31).). Therefore, in future research, we can try to use endothelial cell inoculation
method and combine with antibody to effectively improve the adhesion and retention of endothelial
cells, and further investigate whether this method can make the engineered renal blood vessels
unobstructed.

Machiguchi et al. [8] Used cell-cell interactions in conditioned media to generate neurons in the
body for kidney repair. Their research proved the inhibitory effect of collecting duct cell matrix of

3|Page
 vascular endothelial cells and renal tubular epithelial cells, as well as the stimulating interaction
between vascular endothelial cells and renal tubular epithelial cells. Since the collecting duct cell
matrix is like the renal tubular epithelial cell matrix, it can cause mesenchymal stem cells to
differentiate into renal tubular epithelial cells. Therefore, renal tubular epithelial cells differentiated
from mesenchymal stem cells induced by the collecting duct cell matrix can be injected into the rat
renal cortex. Compared with unprotected cells, pre-implantation of cells with a small amount of gel
complex for three-dimensional culture pretreatment can trigger the formation of more neoprene-like
structures, indicating that the pre-treated kidney is injected into the renal cortex. Tubular epithelial
cells may help repair dysfunctional kidney tissue. Zhang et al. [9] Used adipose stem cells to
differentiate into mesoderm and implanted into stents, and then recellularized the renal artery and
ureter. They found that the induced mesoderm cells differentiated into tubular cells and products
more efficiently than adipose stem cells. This will provide a new idea for the differentiation and
induction of seed cells in the future.

In order to make the above technology feasible in clinical transformation, other key technical
problems need to be solved, including manufacturing a cell-free renal scaffold with clinical scale
[10]; using clinically sourced cells to effectively recellularize the scaffold for reconstruction Fully
functional kidney structure; reduce the cycle of cultivating engineered kidney; ensure that there is
no serious thrombosis in the long-term implant. In addition, the clinical application of fully
functional kidneys in kidney-specific diseases are still a challenging task. To achieve this goal,
multidisciplinary research in this field should be carried out in a balanced manner, including the
establishment of kidney disease models, preclinical research on the construction and application of
tissue engineering kidneys, treatment methods for immune problems, and the regulation of
innervation of implants. The function of the kidney is complex, and the structure is diverse. It is still
difficult to completely reconstruct an engineered kidney that can be used for transplantation by
tissue engineering in vitro. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to select and optimize to produce
engineered kidneys in future research. The cells, scaffold materials and culture, the environment are
used to make engineered kidneys that function closer to normal kidneys and can be used for
transplantation.

4. Application of tissue engineering technology in ureter

Acellular matrix is a kind of tissue engineering ureteral scaffold, especially when it is planted
with cells, it can increase the formation of blood vessels. Koch et al. [11] Proposed to use porcine
acellular matrix cross-linked ureter as a scaffold for human arterial wall regeneration. The results of
the study found that the smooth muscle cells inoculated within 2 weeks evenly filled the stent,
making the stent a substitute for the ureter for transplantation. To improve the regeneration effect,
Zhao et al. [12] Proposed the method of implanting mesenchymal stem cells between vascular
endothelial cells to bridge the long arterial gap. The differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells can
obtain multi-layered arterial tissue. In smooth muscle tissue stained with a-smooth muscle actin and
smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, urothelial cytokeratin 20 and write-in 11 were positively
expressed, which proves that this technology is useful in tissue engineering arterial repair.
Application prospects clinically, the treatment methods for arterial stenosis or injury are mainly
insertion of a double J tube, balloon expansion, repair, and skin fistula. The application of tissue
engineering technology will greatly improve the quality of life of patients who have to fistula, such
as the ureter that cannot be repaired or has long defects. Clinically, the standard method of
replacement therapy is tubular small intestine replacement therapy or tongue mucosal replacement

4|Page
 therapy, but due to many complications, it is difficult to achieve the expected clinical treatment
effect. Another pioneering research is the use of veins instead of ureters [13]. The vein is a pipeline
for the transportation of fluid in the human body. It has good elasticity and is very close to the ureter
in function. However, the number of animals in this study is small, and the incidence of
hydronephrosis is still increasing 3 months after transplantation, and the effect is not very
satisfactory. Further studies need to have good long-term results before they have the chance to be
applied in clinical practice in the future.

In the future application of tissue engineering technology, the concept of vein replacement in the
above method can be combined, and the decellularized vein can be used as a stent to plant arterial
epithelial cells and smooth muscle cells on the stent to achieve the function of replacing the ureter.
The location of the ureter is deep, and the injuries are mostly iatrogenic. The patients with long
stenosis are often older and have a higher tolerance to conventional treatment. Therefore, the
applicability of tissue engineering technology for the treatment of arterial stenosis lacks effective
clinical practice. Research.

5. Application of tissue engineering technology in the bladder

The materials for bladder tissue engineering mainly include:

1. Biomaterial's: natural biological materials made of collagen and alginate and cellular tissue
matrices made of different types of tissues from pigs, such as the submucosa of the bladder, the
submucosa of the small intestine, the dermis, Bladder, gallbladder, and amniotic fluid tissue, etc.
[14].

2. Artificial materials: synthetic stents (polyethylene sponge, Teflon, etc.); synthetic polymers
(such as poly- 4 -ester); silk-based materials. These materials have the advantages of non-toxicity,
biodegradability, and easy adjustment of their structure. Among them, the silk-based sourcing has
been removed from the silk biological material, and the human body’s tolerance to the silk-based
material is equivalent to that of the biological material, so the silk-based material can be used as a
scaffold in tissue engineering technology. In addition, Shakhssalim et al. [15] Successfully applied
electrospinning technology to prepare a polycaprolactone/polylactic acid scaffold for canine bladder
wall replacement. Cell matrix was added to support seed detrusor smooth muscle cells, which can
stimulate local in vivo growth of primary cells.

In terms of cell selection, in theory, autologous cells are the best choice for inducing tissue
fusion and regeneration, which can effectively avoid serious immune responses. However, if urine-
derived stem cells are collected at the source of autologous cells, they are not suitable for urinary
diversion. The main reason for patients undergoing urinary diversion surgery is that most of the
patients undergoing urinary diversion surgery are mostly suffering from tumorous diseases, so the
collected cell sources may contain tumor cells. Other studies have shown that in vitro neuropathic
bladder cells (smooth muscle and epithelial cells) have low contractile potential and low
proliferation and differentiation ability [16]. Therefore, mesenchymal stem cells seem to be a good
source of cells in bladder tissue engineering. However, since mesenchymal stem cells are not
autologous bladder cells, they are easily altered by urinary toxicity, which may affect the success
rate of tissue regeneration, but their advantage is that mesenchymal stem cells seem not to be
affected by the initial pathology of the nervous system [17]. Studies have proved that the use of
multiple cell co-transplantation can promote the regeneration of bladder tissue [18]. However,
insufficient vascularization of regenerated bladder tissue is still a challenge for bladder tissue
engineering. Zhao et al. [19] Isolated adipose-derived endothelial progenitor cells with high

5|Page
 proliferation potential and angiogenic properties, pretreated with hypoxia to increase the activity of
stem cells, and then combined porcine bladder acellular matrix with hypoxia-pretreated autologous
adipose-derived endothelial progenitor cells were injected into the rat bladder reconstruction model
at the same time, and its feasibility and the possibility of bladder blood vessel formation were
evaluated, proving that hypoxia preconditioning can promote angiogenesis and tissue-engineered
bladder function recovery.

Clinically, the ideal replacement bladder has complicated complications. The materials used for
bladder reconstruction in the past included gelatin sponge, Japanese paper, formalin-preserved dog
bladder, freeze-dried human dura mater, bovine pericardium, and small intestinal submucosa [20].
These biological materials provide a temporary scaffold for tissue growth, and over time they will
reshape and degrade. A common complication in patients with bladder reconstruction is the gradual
decrease in bladder capacity. Therefore, although these batteries can benefit some patients, they are
rarely used in subsequent studies due to their poor long-term effects and the existence of
complications. Be used again. To construct a tissue-engineered bladder, Bouhout et al. [21]
Simulated an autologous bladder equivalent (VE). First, fibroblasts and epithelial cells were used
for three-dimensional culture to obtain reconstructed VE; then they were cultured in a bioreactor,
the reactor can provide a circulating pressure of up to 15 cm H2O0, which is then rapidly reduced to
achieve dynamically cultured VE (DCVE). The study found that the contour of the urothelium
produced by dynamic culture was like that of the natural bladder. Permeability analysis showed that
its contour was like that of the natural bladder and consistent with the basal cell tissue of the
bladder. At the same time, it had the proper stretch ability during suture and processing. This new
alternative method provides a new direction for regenerative medicine, which has similar properties
to the bladder and can act as a urea barrier. These properties can significantly reduce inflammation,
necrosis, and possible rejection. Studies have shown that, compared with cell-free scaffolds, cells
are implanted into scaffolds (such as: bladder acellular matrix; polyacetic acid/polylactic acid-
glycolic acid), the effect of cell growth is better [22-23]. In clinical trials, it was found that a
cellular scaffold can only regenerate the urothelium but cannot regenerate smooth muscles to
achieve the effect of restoring the contractile function of the bladder. Another study by Bouhout et
al. [24] Found that the use of collagen-derived scaffolds in tissue-engineered three-dimensional
spherical bladder models can mimic the natural shape of the bladder. Bladder mesenchymal cells
are embedded in the scaffold, and epithelial cells are implanted on the surface. Therefore, the
tension in the bladder mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells implanted in the model are like that in
natural tissues. The three-dimensional spherical bladder model has the characteristics of highly
mature urethral epithelium, collagen remodeling, and smooth muscle cells expressing myosin show
a tendency to rearrange parallel to the surface of the cavity, which has characteristics comparable to
natural tissues. This technology can be used for Partial replacement therapy for pathological bladder
in the future.

The ideal tissue engineering, regeneration biomaterial should be able to make the mature
epithelial cell layer uniformly and continuously attach to the surface of the bladder cavity and form
multiple smooth muscle cell layers on the surface of the bladder cavity. It should also provide
sufficient mechanical support to prevent renewal in the body. The tissue collapses prematurely
before it forms. However, the implanted cells are suddenly exposed to an environment full of
inflammatory mediators and activated immune responses, which will significantly affect their
proliferation and function. Therefore, the constructed in vivo microenvironment should support the
self-renewal, survival and differentiation of the implanted cell population and protect it from

6|Page
